[MUSIC]
So far, we have designed
an approximation algorithm for
vertex cover and
we have proved that it is correct.
That is, the output really
is a proper vertex cover.
We have also verified that
it runs in polynomial time.
The only thing remaining is we need
to analyze the quality of the output.
How good is the output?
We need to relate it to the unknown value
of the unknown optimal vertex cover.
This is what we will now proceed to do.
Start from the output.
Let us try to express it's value.
What is the output?
It is the set of vertices u,
subset variable z sub u equals 1.
The z sub u are the rounded values
obtained from the LP solution.
Well, the output cost is
the sum of the weights
of all vertices that are chosen
in our vertex cover.
It can be written as sum over u of wu zu.
This is an algebraic expression for
the cost of the output.
So to analyze the output,
we need to analyze this quantity.
Upper bound, its cost.
Second, now we have expressed
the output cost in terms of z sub u.
Let us try to relate the value
of z sub u to something else.
To the LP variables that it came from.
How was z sub u defined?
It was the rounded value
obtained from variable xu star.
xu star was a real number between 0 and 1.
z sub u is rounded to 1 or to 0.
Observe.
z sub u is always at most 2 times xu star.
There's a factor of 2 between z sub u and
xu star.
Sometimes this can be very pessimistic.
Sometimes z sub u is 0.
But in any case,
regardless of the value of xu star,
z sub u is at most twice as much.
The factor of 2 is reached exactly
when xu star equals one half.
Next, what do we do with these xu stars?
We need to relate the xu stars
to the value of the value of
the unknown optimal vertex cover.
For this we will go back to
the definition of the linear program.
And remember that it is a relaxation of
an integer program for a vertex cover.
Compare the integer program and
the linear program.
Put them side by side,
you can see that the only difference is xu
is 0,1 in the integer program.
xu star is between 0 and
1 in the linear program.
What does this mean?
This means that the linear program is
less constraining than the program.
So when you're trying to minimize,
the linear program can give you
something smaller than the program.
And so what this means is that,
if you look at the optimal value
of the linear program,
it's value of sum of w sub u xu star.
It is smaller than the optimal value of
the integer program, smaller than OPT.
Now we have step by step, starting from
the output cost, related it to OPT.
It only remains to combine
our various observations, and
we will obtain the proof.
There you go.
Look.
The output cost is equal to
a weighted sum of z sub u's,
which is at most 2 times
the sum of w sub u, x u star.
And the sum is at most OPT.
We have proved a theorem.
The output of our algorithm is a vertex
cover who's value is at most 2 times OPT.
It's a factor of 2 approximation for
vertex cover.
But is this analysis tight?
Is this factor of 2 necessary?
Unfortunately yes.
There are some cases where
it's really effective too.
Let me give you an example.
Consider this cycle, length 8.
Take every other vertex along this cycle.
You get a vertex cover of value 4.
Solve the linear program
to execute the algorithm.
What do you see?
It is possible that it will give you,
for every xu star 0.5.
What does the rounding do next?
Every 0.5 is replaced by 1,
1, 1, 8 times 1.
The cost is 8.
The optimal cost is 4.
The output cost is 8.
So we really have lost a factor of 2.
Our analysis tight.
The algorithm is no better
then the two approximations.
Except we're talking
about worst-case here.
The typical performance, I have been told,
is usually within 10% of optimum.
And the nice thing about this algorithm
is that in the cases when it really is
close to optimum, you can tell.
You can see it.
How do you know?
You can just compare the value of your
output to the value of the linear program.
You have the linear program so
you know this expression.
And so you have the output,
so you know its value, so
you can see when the output
is within 10% of the value.
And then you know you have a proof
that in that specific instance,
you're output is within 10% of OPT.
In this part, we have completed
the analysis of a vertex cover algorithm,
and we have proved that it is
within a factor of 2 of optimal.
Now all that remains is to
summarize our approach, and
to see the vertex cover
program in general.